In this video, I will teach you
the exact math behind LSTMs.
It's a bit complex,
so don't worry if it seems
a little overwhelming
in the beginning. Let's dive in.
As you might recall from earlier,
a typical LSTM consists
of a cell state and
a hidden state,
which holds the
outputs from the cell.
You can think of the cell as
the memory of your network
carrying all the relevant
information down the sequence.
As the cell travels,
each gate adds or
removes information
from the cell state.
The gates make up the
hidden states of your LSTM.
They contain activation functions
and element-wise operations.
LSTMs typically have three
gates: the forget gate,
the input gate, and
the output gate.
Let's discuss how each
one works in detail.
The first gate is
the forget gate,
which as you may have guessed,
decides which information from
the previous cell state and
current input should
be kept or tossed out.
It does this with a
sigmoid function,
which squeezes each value
from the cell states
between zero and one.
In this case, a value closer to
zero indicates it
should be thrown away,
and a value closer to one
indicates it should be kept.
Now that you have the values
indicating what to keep
and what to throw out,
you need to update
the cell states.
This is where the
input gate comes in.
The input gate is
actually two layers,
a sigmoid layer and a tanh layer.
The sigmoid takes the
previous hidden states
and current inputs and
chooses which values to update
by assigning zero or
one to each value.
The closer to one, the
higher its importance.
The tanh layer also takes
the hidden states and
current inputs and squeezes
the values between
negative one and one.
This helps to regulate
the flow of information
in your network.
Then the outputs of
this sigmoid and tanh
layers are multiplied.
Now your model has
what it needs to
calculate a new cell state.
Now, you can recalculate the
values in the cell states.
For this step, take the values
provided by the forget gate and
multiply them element-wise by
the values in the cell state.
Then take that result and do
an element-wise addition with
the values provided
by the input gate.
That's it. You've updated
your cell states.
Onward to the third
and final gate.
Now that you've updated
your cell states,
the output gate will decide
what your next hidden
state should be.
Remember that your cell
state acts as the memory,
and the hidden state is
what makes predictions.
To arrive at a new hidden state,
the output gate takes the
previous hidden state and
the current input and
passes them through
a sigmoid layer.
Then your freshly
updated cell state
is passed through
a tanh function.
Similarly to the input gate,
the outputs from the
sigmoid layer are
multiplied by the
tanh layer's output,
and this makes the final decision
on what will be
included in the output.
Now you have an
updated cell state,
an updated hidden state,
and one completed timestep.
Your model can move on
to the next timestep.
Let's recap everything
I just covered.
An LSTM has three gates to
decide which information
it's going to keep.
The forget gate
decides what to keep.
The input gate
decides what to add.
The output gate decides
what the next hidden
state will be.
After each of these
gates performs
its function and the
states are updated,
you will have completed
one timestep.
You now understand the
math behind LSTMs.
In the coding exercise
of this week,
you will implement
LSTMs on your own.
In the next video,
I will show you how to use LSTMs
to solve a real NLP task.
Let's go to the next video.